>> Nina: Exceptions are just
regular classes the inherit
from the exception class.
And so I can ask Issubclass(ValueError,
Exception).
It's true, right?
You can do this for all of the exceptions
that we've been looking at.
So in order to make our own custom
exceptions, all we need to do
is subclass from exception, just like
all these other types of exceptions do.
So I can say class MyCustomException,
subclass from Exception.
And then it doesn't really matter.
You can even have just pass, which
means it's a valid statement in Python,
so it means you can kind of have
an empty class without any variables or
an initializer or anything like that.
>> Nina: Now I can raise this
CustomException class by using
the raise keyword.
>> Nina: Oops, sorry, no colon there.
And now we get a trace back
going back to MyCustomException.
>> Nina: This is a really useful way
of signaling error conditions in
your production Python code.
It's good to have custom exception
classes so that you can then handle them
as specifically as you want
in your error checking code.
>> Nina: Does that make sense why?
Okay, the nice thing about these
custom exception classes is they
don't have to get simple.
We can get as fancy as we want here.
So I'm gonna make a new class.
The IncorrectValueError,
it's gonna sub class from Exception.
>> Nina: And
I'm gonna make a constructor here.
I'm gonna take self and
I'm also gonna take value.
>> Nina: Now I know that
exceptions all have a message.
I did this by looking at the documentation
and you can too, but bear with me for now.
I can say that from my error request,
I want the message to be got a bad value,
and then actually print
out what the value was.
>> Nina: How do I call the exception
class and pass in my new message?
>> Speaker 2: Super.
>> Nina: Its super.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Nina: Then I pass in my new message.
>> Nina: Okay, so
now I can say my value equals and
if my value is greater than 998,
>> Nina: Oops.
>> Nina: Let me fix that underscore there.
If my value is greater than 998,
raise my IncorrectValueError and
pass in my_value.
>> Nina: There we go,
that's my error message, right?
That looks like the other
Python trace backs.
It gives us the type and
then it gives us the message.
So very useful, especially for logging.
We can do this because exception
in general takes the message.
So if I wanted to, don't do this.
>> Nina: Not good practice.
Just showing you.
You generally don't wanna raise
the exception because your custom error
handling code,
>> Nina: Probably
doesn't do a good job of figuring out
in why this exception was thrown.
But you can pass a message here,
you say whatever message I want.
>> Nina: There we go.
>> Nina: Let's write a custom
exception for our GitHub API.